we're here at cooler Masters booth at
CES 2024 and the amount of engineering
prowess that they have on display here
is not what I was expecting at all their
new X series of power supplies are just
mind bogglingly cool this thing right
here 1,00 watts and completely fanless
look at this absolutely silent and if
you put a fan on it it can go up to
2800 watts of course you can't do in
North America your Breakers would just
blow but if you're in Europe you
absolutely can this thing is actually
Bonkers now there's two things that you
need to have a fanless power supply
first of all you just need cooling
Cooler Master can do that that's not too
hard and also it needs to just be
incredibly efficient which is the
particularly difficult part although
first let's just have a little talk
about the cooling the first way to
dissipate heat is pretty simple you
stick a big old heat sink on top of your
components and uh yeah that just gets
the heat away but they've gone one step
further than that and the whole bottom
of this power supply case is one great
big heat sink so your main Transformer
that goes from your 400 volt down to 12
is right over top of this coal plate and
they have four heat pipes that are going
to take that heat and spread it all
across this extruded piece of aluminum
right here this cooling solution is
pretty sick but when we look at the
actual way they've got the efficiency so
great in this it is incredible just like
this incredible segue to our sponsor
thanks to be quiet for sponsoring our
CES 2024 coverage if you're shopping for
your next PC build or just new
components in general make sure to check
out be quiet their premium products
include PC cases power supplies Water
and Air Cooling and fans for desktop PCS
with roots in Germany they've been in
the industry for more than 20 years and
specialize in making high quality parts
that are nearly inaudible this year at
CES they're showcasing their new white
PC cas as white fans and even white hard
drive cages step into the world of
Silent Computing with be quiet at the
link Down Below in the past though we
have seen fanless power supplies but
they've capped out around 750 watts and
how Cooler Master was able to take this
up to that 1100 was with the components
in here so let's go from the wall to
your computer and show you it compared
to just sort of like a normal quite
high-end power supply the first bit of
your power supply is your dirty wall
power comes in right here and needs to
be cleaned up by your power factor
correction now if this is not done
properly your voltage and your current
might be a little bit out of phase or
the noise that's coming from your wall
will cause that to be out of phase and
it can be very inefficient now in a
normal power supply you might have your
medium flux chokes and those are pretty
good but it's not like they're very
fancy high flux chokes that they've got
in this one the main thing is just that
the materials are quite expensive in
these ones right here and it makes them
able to really really get that noise
down the next step is to take your AC
input and change it over to DC using a
bridge diode Well normally you would use
a bridge diode but what they are using
are Moss vets for even more efficiency
at that step next we want to step up the
voltage to 380 volts now this is
normally accomplished with a single rail
in the X Series they're using two rails
this allows you to have less switching
losses and just higher efficiency which
also means less heat from there what we
have to do is take our 380 volts and
chop it up into AC so that we can take
it down to 12 volts using a Transformer
now this is done using mosfets but the
problem that they ran into is that they
are switching their mosfets so fast that
if they were to use normal traditional
ones where you have like a screw that
attaches it to your heat sink they're
having problems with the corona effect
and then if that happens your Moss bed
explodes bad time time because their
power supply exploding is fairly
undesirable they had to work with their
manufacturer to do a special high
temperature press so that their mosfets
could be attached to the heat sink here
without using any screws look at that
because 380 volts going to your CPU is
undesirable we now have to step it down
with this Transformer to the 12 volts
that you need this is typically done
with your Transformer and that's where a
lot of the switching losses will occur
in your power supply they now have a
multi layer Transformer to help reduce
those losses and reduce that heat even
though this is the hottest component in
the whole thing now typically after the
Transformer you have a full analog
signal but in this they have an MCU that
turns it into a digital signal and
through the PM bus that's right here
it's able to communicate with the server
or your computer so it knows exactly
sort of what the power supply is doing
what the server is doing they can
communicate together for the maximum
efficiency now now we have our 12vt that
is going to power most of the stuff in
your computer but because 12vt only
hasn't caught on for some stupid reason
we have to also get 3.3 and 5 volt now
this is done quite similarly to how you
would do it in a traditional power
supply only difference is just
components are bigger and better more
efficiency less heat now with all of
that we were able to get our 1100 wats
out of this completely silently
completely fanless and it has a platinum
efficiency rating to boot a couple more
interesting things about this power
supply we have a USB protocol right here
which just allows you to have some
software to see how the power supply is
doing how everything's running that sort
of stuff our PM bus which we already
talked about for servers and Industrial
things and also a little fan output this
is just for if you don't have maybe
enough fan outputs on your motherboard
you can have your fans controlled by the
power supply load directly from here you
guys won't be shock to know that all of
that technology that the cram in here
will be coming at a price this is
expected to be some somewhere between
$650 and $700 when it launches later
this month you're looking for something
a little bit smaller though they have
their V sfx Platinum now in the US in
spots with 110 voltage it's going to be
1,00 wat but if you're fortunate enough
to be somewhere that has 240 volt you
can get 1,300 watts in a power supply of
this size that is absolutely Bonkers
like just for context this right here is
a typical ATX power supply and this
thing's
1,300 wats I feel like we've already
nerded out enough in this so I'm not
going to go into the details of how they
achiev that but the gist of it is buy
very high quality components get very
high quality power supply one final
thing that's nice are their new cables
it's just a very simple you know right
angle connector into three guys so that
you don't accidentally you know not
complete the connection and burn your
house down and it's just going to be
awesome for when you're in like a really
small computer and you just can't fit
something like this in there just like I
can't fit any more really technical
information in this video if you guys
are still around thank you so much for
watching this was absolutely brain
breaking hit like get subscribed and
just have a fantastic all day see you
later